I'm a Vim fan. After years of using it, I started to customise it like everybody else. I thought I had something that's worked quite well, until I hit one problem. My linter sometimes took seconds to check the code, and it will freeze Vim, because Vim didn't have asynchronous support. I looked around; I found NeoVim and problem solved. Happy days. 

But there was always this one thing I can't solve. I want to make Vim pretty. I tried all kinds of themes. Tried all kinds of status bar plugins with icons in it. File explorers with file icons in it. But no, I also wanted a 1px vertical split bar, not the thick colored one or the dashed line drawn with pipe characters. After hours and hours of search, it occured to me that it's impossible to do. Again NeoVim was the savior. It introduced external UI. The idea was that NeoVim splits the UI and the backend. The backend emits events to the UI and the UI draws them. I couldn't wait to try it out with writing a UI in Electron, with the hope that I can solve my vertical split bar dream. But I didn't, because it emits the drawing events treating it as a whole canvas, and I don't get the boundary of each splits. I started to hack NeoVim code. I made it to emit split sizes and positions, and I finally can draw the bars in the UI. With joy, I also looked at emits the command modes to the UI, so I can put the command in the middle of the window. And then echo messages, status line etc. I pushed a PR for the hacky solution(https://github.com/neovim/neovim/pull/5686). Then I hit performance issue in Electron because Javascript was simply not fast enough to de-serialze the drawing events from NeoVim. So I wrote another UI in Go with Qt binding(https://github.com/dzhou121/gonvim). 
